All the things here will end up in 'litreview-th2'.
This file will be eventually deleted.



% richards_thermal_2007
What they did:
* Modified fuel element design
	- analyzes using RELAP5-3D/ATHENA, POKE, and CFX.
	- 30C reduction
* reduction of the bypass flow to reduce peak fuel temperatures
* alternative inlet-flow configurations to reduce reactor vessel temperatures
* see if conventional LWR materials could be used for a VHTR vessel

ATHENA: Advanced Thermal Energy Network Analysis (Carlson, 1986)
Carlson, 1986
To asses the impact of higher coolant temperatures on steady-state vessel temperatures, parasitic RCCS heat losses, and peak fuel temperatures during LOCAs.
GT-MHR inlet configuration and two alternative inlet flow configurations evaluated
Routing the inlet flow through the inner reflector resulted in a greater loss of heat capacity, increasing fuel temperatures by 40 C during a LOCA.

POKE (Kapernick, 1993), calculations on the unit cell:
Two designs: Fort St Vrain: 10 row (10 row of fuel holes across the flats)
increased to 12 row. Also reduction of the fuel coolant holes and coolant holes.
This reduces the max temperatures by 34 C.

POKE and ATHENA:
Study the effects of lowering the coolant inlet temperature and also decrease the total coolant flow rate

% simoneau_three-dimensional_2007
3D model to simulate the passive heat removal in a MHR during a loss of active cooling accident.
Model developed using STAR-CD solves the conductive, convective, and radiative heat transfer within a 30 deg section of the core and reactor vessel.
To accommodate the different spatial scales, it uses homogeneous equivalent media to represent the coolant flow and the prismatic fuel blocks.

Two accident scenarios: despressurized conduction cooldown and pressurized conduction cooldown.
Results compared to assess the effect of internal natural convection which is neglible during the depressurized event.
Evolution of natural convection flow through the core is examined and discussed.

If the circuit is depressurized (depressurized conduction cooldown DCC) the convective heat transfer from natural convection is negligible.
The helium pressure is on the order of atmospheric pressure due to equilibrium with air in the reactor cavity volume.
If the circuit remains pressurized (pressurized conduction cooldown PCC) then the internal natural convection provides noticeable heat transfer.

Timeline for both scenarios is the same:
- Reactor operates at 600 MW
- Primary helium circulation is stopped
- protection system drops the rods automatically
In the DCC scenraio, the system rapidly depressurizes and the transient begins at a completely depressurized state.
After the loss of forced flow, natural circulation develops in the reactor as a result of the buoyancy forces.
Natural convection occurs in both the DCC and PCC scenarios. In the first case it is ignored since it is weak and the amount of heat transfer is negligible.

Partial differential equations discretized by the finite volume method, using the first order upwind differences for the spatial temrs and a first order, fully implicit scheme for the temporal discretization.
To solve pressure linked equations: SIMPLE algorithm (Patankar, 1980) and PISO algorithm (Issa et al., 1991) for the steady-state and transient calculations respectively.

During the steady-state calculations, turbulence is modeled using STAR-CD's standard linear k-e model and wall functions for high Reynolds number flow.
Heat transfer by thermal radiation modeled by face-to-face exchanges using a discrete beam method to calculate the view factors.
All surfaces are gray an diffuse.

The blocks are represented by a homogeneous equivalent solid medium, which includes both the fuel compacts and the graphite web.
The gaps between the core blocks are explicitly modeled by mesh cells.
The gap size is assumed to be 2 mm.

A distributed resistance model (porous medium) is used to represent the coolant channels in the fuel blocks.
The graphite of the fuel blocks is represented by a separate set of mesh cells.
Because the solid parts and fluid parts of the model are coupled, the two sets of cells are overlaid.
The overlapping fluid and solid cells are coupled by calculating the heat flux form the fluid to the solid: Q = K(Tf-Ts).
K represents the heat transfer by a combination of conduction, radiation, and convection.
Its values is obtained from a separate detailed, explicit model of a single fuel block.
Comparison of homogeneous and explicit model of the fuel block during a pressurized conduction cooldown.

% huning_steady_2014
Modeling and prediction of core thermal hydraulic behavior is essential for both normal operation and transient safety.
Thermal hydraulic modeling studies for early gas-cooled reactor designs such as Fort Saint Vrain and Peach Bottom Unit 1 are limited and consist mainly of support calculations for NRC safety analysis reports.

Thermal analysis methods for these early HTGRs relied on sets of independent codes that employed simplistic approximations for flow, core, assembly and fuel heat transfer modeling.

Early thermal analysis codes:
Shenoy and McEarchern 1974 % see shenoy_htgr_1974

Later reactor designs including the MHTGR and GT-MHR used the same or similar set of codes as those listed above to perform thermal analysis for safety analysis and conceptual design reports.
The central modeling technique of these analyses is the equivalent fuel-moderator-coolant triangular unit cell.
The disadvantage is that explicit fuel and graphite temperatures are not computed.

Specifically, it is of interest whether 1-D flow modeling of coolant and bypass channels provides sufficient accuracy for convective heat transfer coefficient prediction.
The issue of unit cell nodal heat transfer methods as compared to more detailed CFD was investigated in a study by Tak et al. (2008) % tak_numerical_2008

Recent studies of HTGR core thermal hydraulics can be divided into two principal categories: core heat transfer, and reactor fluid flow.
In most cases, no experimental data are available to fully benchmark the results of a particular study; therefore, design results used are mostly from the MHTGR, GT-MHR, and NGNP (VHTR).

While most of the studies discussed assume consistent sets of key design parameters such as assembly block and fuel dimensions, there is significant variation in operational parameters such as inlet coolant temperature, core flow rate or desired average coolant outlet temperature, and core power.
Graphite and fuel material properties can also be different depending on the author or study.

* Core heat transfer:
MacDonald et al. 2003 % macdonald_ngnp_2003

Study to support the NGNP.
The purpose was to quantify the impact of variations to key design parameters such as core power, power density, assembly geometry, fuel configuration and others.
They performed both steady state and transient analyses.
Analysis of maximum core temperatures by varying the bypass flow fraction, flow distribution, and reactor power.
The steady state method employed the POKE code to simulate one third of the core.
The code approximates core transfer using triangular unit cells.
The core power profile was determined from Monte Carlo reactor physics calculations.
The bypass and coolant flow distribution was fixed and not explicitly determined.

First observation: the maximum fuel temperature increases when bypass flow is increased.
Another observation: the maximum fuel temperatures could be reduced by 100C if flow could be increased in hot coolant channels and decreased in channels next to lower power or cooler fuel compacts.
Another one: Increasing core power by adding active fuel blocks above the existing active core could be achieved without increasing maximum fuel temperatures.

While these parametric studies revealed promising design modifications for the VHTR, a high degree of uncertainty remains due to the lack of explicit flow prediction and equivalent triangular unit cell modeling.

Since the NGNP point design study, there have been limited core heat transfer parametric design studies for HTGRs.
One parametric core heat transfer study was conducted by Damian 2008:
Damian 2008 % damian_vhtr_2008
* The 3D thermal hydraulic code CAST3M and neutronics calculation scheme NEPHTIS were used to determine maximum fuel temperature for a peak assembly.
* Several fuel and assembly geometry configuration changes were investigated, but none were found to offer significant advantage over the originally proposed core assembly configuration.
* Reducing radial power peaking was the most promising method for reducing peak fuel temperatures.
* Coarse discretization of porous media homogenized cells formed the basis for the core heat transfer calculations.
* Parameters such as bypass flow fraction, reflector material, power density, and control rod operation were varied to examine the impact on maximum fuel temperature
* Replacing the outer graphite reflector with magnesium oxide (MgO) could reduce the maximum transient fuel temperatures by 50C.
* Both studies macdonald_ngnp_2003 and damian_vhtr_2008 found that employing fuel management techniques reduces maximum fuel temperatures.

In addition to unit cell methods, CFD has also been used to analyze block or assembly level thermal hydraulics.
CFD code Trio_U Bieder and Graffard, 2008 % bieder_qualification_2008
Analyzed partial helium channel blocking
The code uses a hybrid finite volume finite element method for unstructured 3D grids, and supports both RANS and LES modeling.
Various RANS turbulence models can be used including the k-epsilon model, k-w based SST model, or a Reynolds stress model.

Cioni et al. 2006 examined the impact of helium channel blocking on maximum fuel temperatures.
Cioni et al. 2006 % cioni_3d_2006
24 blocked coolant channels were modeled.
The maximum steady state fuel temperatures were found to reach 1925 C.

Tak et al. 2008 compare the unit cell and CFD methods in detail.
Tak et al. % tak_numerical_2008
A flat power distribution was assumed for the axial length of the core.
Bypass flow was calculated assuming a 1 mm reference gap.
The max fuel temperature was found to be 1119 C.
The similar unit cell model maximum temperature was found to be 1099 C.
For cases with larger bypass gaps, CFD simulations indicate that maximum fuel temperatures could be up to 79C higher than the triangular cell prediction.
Conclusion: triangular unit cell methods can be safely applied to cases with low bypass flow.

This work (huning_steady_2014) presents a remedy for the triangular unit cell method to better estimate the intra-assembly heat conduction rates.

* Coolant flow:
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (US-NRC) Office of Nuclear Regulatory Research published a Phenomena Identification and Ranking Table (PIRT) on NGNP (VHTR) safety-relevant phenomena (Ball, 2008).
Ball, 2008 % ball_next_2008

Expert panels were tasked with identifying and ranking phenomena critical to both steady state and accident conditions.
Core bypass flow was judged to be of high importance with a low or medium knowledge level.
This means that more research is needed to measure bypass flow across the core, and to develop reactor analysis tools that can predict bypass flow.
One of the modeling challenges is that since graphite changes physical shape under irradiation, bypass flow will vary axially along the core.

ANL
Lee et al, 2006 % lee_status_2006
Performed core flow modeling and sensitivity studies for prismatic modular reactors.
Modeling of coolant flow based on a 2D flow path and resistance network approach.
Each fuel assembly modeled as a single channel with additional channels for axial bypass flow and lateral cross flow.
The conservation equations for mass and momentum are solved using an assumed temperature profile based on the anticipated power profile predicted in the same study.
Objective was to identify flow paths that contribute to bypass flow the most.
Vertical assembly gaps in the replaceable reflector region and near the permanent side reflector were identified as main bypass flow contributors.
Cross flow was not found to play a substantial role in coolant flow distribution under normal operating conditions.

Sato et al. 2010 % sato_computational_2010
CFD work using FLUENT indicates that bypass flow is a complex phenomenon that is inherently coupled to neutronics, heat transfer, and fluid dynamics.
Studies using the standard k-epsilon and the Wilcox k-w model show discrepancies.
The study suggested that these turbulence models need more verification against prismatic HTGR experiments.
Another key insight was that radial power distribution has a larger effect on maximum fuel temperatures that axial power distribution.

Johnson 2008 % johnson_development_2008
CFD Analysis of the lower plenum flow.
Computations performed using FLUENT.
The simulations address several questions: whether 2D or 3D calculations, fine or coarse grids are necessary. And what boundary conditions result more appropriate.

Anderson et al. 2008 % anderson_analysis_2007
CFD model of the lower plenum.
Goal to determine the degree of mixing in the lower plenum.

* Summary
Several codes employed a number of simplifications such as fixed flow fractions in coolant and bypass channels, 1/3rd fraction of whole core analysis, and neglected axial conduction.
Triangular unit cells where a fraction of fuel, graphite and coolant were homogenized.
Fine mesh CFD methods are more accurate but have not been applied to the whole core due to computational cost.

Some approaches couple system analysis code such as RELAP for large core domains and CFD for local or detailed regions.
This could be computationally efficient and provide accurate maximum fuel temperature and bypass flow predictions.

What they did:
* redevelop the unit cell method to adequately predict the axial and radial heat conduction within each assembly block

Thermal fluid properties for graphite, helium, and fuel compact material are taken from Johnson et al, 2009.
Johnson et al. 2009 % johnson_cfd_2009

% shenoy_htgr_1974
3.2.1 Kernel Migration

4. Analytical methods
Based on the principles of conservation of mass, momentum, and energy.

Steady-state analysis: (Table 4-1)
* FLAC:
Determines the coolant flow distribution in the coolant channels and gaps.
Solves the 1-D Momentum Equation for incompressible flow.
Solves continuity eqs of mass and energy.
Models the density changes in the gas.

* POKE:
It solves the coolant mass flow, coolant temperature, and fuel temperature distribution in an HTGR core.
Steady-state mass and momentum conservation equations for parallel channels, solved using finite differences.
Imposes the power distribution.

* DEMISE/DEMICE: determines the steady state 3D temperature distribution in 1/2 columns of standard elements (DEMISE) and control elements (DEMICE).
It solves the temperature distribution in a network model using a successive point iteration.
It calculates the flow distribution by balancing pressure drop in coolant passages.

* BACH:
It calculates the steady-state core power/flow ratio to achieve a desired maximum fuel temperature.
It calculates the coolant channel mass flow by balancing the pressure drop for a single channel.
It calculates the gas temperatures from energy balance equations.

* HEXT:
To determine steady-state temperature distribution and equivalent thermal conductances in fuel, fuel-mdoerator gap, and moderator in a unit cell of HTGR type fuel elements.
It solves the heat conduction equation in 2D geometries.

* TREVER:
To determine from given power distributions the steady-state coolant, graphite, and fuel temperatures.
TO determine time and space distribution of coating failure.
It solves 1D (radial) steady-state heat transfer.

* TAC-2D:
It is a general purpose 2D thermal analysis code.
Solves the 2D heat conduction equation by finite differences using an implicit iteration method.

* DETRAC:
Solves 1D nodal transient heat transfer equations with no axial or radial conduction between channels.

1D unit cell code BACH and HEXT
BACH 1D describes heat and coolant flow in a single coolant channel in the core.

Transient analysis:
* TAP code:
To study the overall plant transient behavior of HTGRs.
It incorporates models of all major components of the nuclear steam supply.
The reactor and primary coolant model in the program accounts for all helium temperature changes in the primary coolant system including heating in the core and cooling in the steam generator.
The reactor core model in TAP consists of one average coolant channel surrounded by graphite and fuel.
It computes the average heat generation rate in the core and computes the average coolant, graphite, and fuel temperatures in the core.

* Single Channel Analysis TAC Model:
Coolant, graphite, and fuel temperature profiles within a unit cell.
Signle rod stacj surrounded by a gap and volume of graphite with a heat capacity and conductance equal to that of a unit cell.
The model extends the entire active core length with five axial nodes per fuel block and includes the top reflector, bottom reflector, and core support blocks.
The cose uses time and temperature dependent material properties such as density, thermal conductivity, and heat capacity.

* DETRAC Code:
It calculates fuel and graphite temperatures within each refueling region.
It calculates the graphite and coolant temperatures at top and bottom reflector, and for each fuel block.

* RECA Code:
Preferred code when the radial conduction of energy between refueling regions is significant.
It calculates the axial distribution of average coolant, graphite, and fuel temperatures for each refueling region.
Reverse flow is possible for low-flow conditions and is accounted for by the core.
Cross-flow is not considered.

% macdonald_ngnp_2003
Next Generation Nuclear Plant (NGNP) presented to possible designs: one for a prismatic fuel type helium gas-cooled reactor and one for a pebble bed fuel helium gas reactor.
Both with three basic requirements: a coolant outlet temperature of 1000C, passive safety, and a total power output consistent with that expected for commercial HTGRs.

The prismatic NGNP is a design directly based on the General Atomics Very High Temperature Gas-cooled Reactor (VHTR) submittal to the Generation IV Roadmap, which was based of their gas turbine-modular helium reactor (GT-MHR) design.

An important issue involving the performance of the fuel particles is the power peaking of the fuel rods.
The areas of biggest concern are the annular core interfaces with the inner and outer graphite reflectors, but primarily the inner reflector interface.
The possible solutions are:
(1) use of allocated B4C burnable poison rod locations in the fuel blocks
(2) graded particle packing fractions in the fuel rod Rows 1, 2, 3, and 4 nearest the interface
(3) graded fuel enrichments in these same Rows 1-4
(4) replacement of specific fuel rods with burnable poisons (e.g. B 4 C)
(5) B 4 C loaded in the graphite reflector blocks in Rings 5 and 9 near the reflector/core interfaces.

What they did:
* They made parametric thermal-hydraulic design studies using POKE.
* Investigate design options that would allow 1000C outlet temperature, the highest possible overall core power, while maintaining the fuel temperature below 1250 C
* They studied the 600 MWt GT-MHR design with Tin 491 C and Tout 850 C:
	- evaluated two design modifications: reducing the bypass flow and better controlling the inlet coolant flow distribution.
* Evaluation of taller and higher power reactor cores with the POKE computer core:
	- 10 block 600 MWt, 12 block 720 MWt, and 14 block high 840 MWt
* Thermal-hydraulic model of the NGNP reactor vessel and reactor cavity developed with the RELAP5-3D/ATHENA.
	- The code and model were used to perform analyses of the transient response of the NGNP design and determine the effects of the core geometry on the peak reactor vessel and fuel temperatures.
* Sensibility calculations to determine the power that could be obtained for different core heights without exceeding a peak transient fuel temperature of 1600C.
	- 10 block 686 MWt, 12 block 786 MWt, and 14 block 889 MWt.
* Parametric analyses of the limiting temperature transient, the depressurized conduction cooldown design basis event using the TAC2D code.
	- Power and core temperature profiles from POKE
	- for 10 block, 621 MWt will limit the peak core temperature during the cooldown event to 1600 C.

Neutronic Results:
- Cool results: I could add that in my thesis.
Reactivity effects of Helium Gas insignificant

The annual fluence estimates are based on a capacity factor of 90\% and one year is assumed to be 365.25 days in length. (It is the flux * 3600*24*365.25 * 0.9).

Thermal-Hydraulic Results:
- They used POKE to perform the parametric studies.
- Analysis for a reactor configuration consisting of a number of regions. Individual columns (fuel columns) are the regions.
- For each region, POKE models an average coolant channel that is coupled to an adiabatic unit cell.
- using the coolant channel temperature as a boundary condition for convective heat transfer, 2D calculations are performed at each axial location to determine the moderator and fuel temperatures.
- gap between the fuel compact and the graphite moderator is modeled.
- conduction and radiation are assumed to occur across the gap.
- POKE calculates the flow distribution among the fuel columns nad the temperatures of the coolant, graphite, and fuel at each axial location
- POKE also calculates the axial pressure dsitribution in each column and the overall pressure drop across the core
- the temperature rise of the bypassflow is a 30\% of the overall coolant temperature rise
- the core power distribution is an input for POKE. The power distribution is based on care-physics calculations perfromed for the reference GT-MHR.
Burnable posion is zoned axially.
- Local power density is determined by multiplying the average power density by the product of a column-averaged power factor and axial power factor.
The axial power factor is a strong function of control rod position
- Power distribution at time point between the middle and end of cycle when the control rods are inserted to the axial midpoint of the active core.
This type of power distribution generally results in higher fuel temperatures since more power is shifted toward the bottom where coolant temperatures are also the highest.
- Power distributions can be flattened if a concept referred to as fuel placement is used. With this method, each column contains both new and old fuel at the beginning of an equilibrium cycle.

* RELAP5-3D/ATHENA model:
	- (Figure 60) illustrates the heat transfer mechanisms modeled between the various structures and the coolant
	- Inner reflector and core: conduction, He: convection, Outer reflector to reactor vessel and reactor vessel to RCCS: convection and radiation
	- Transient analysis: HPCC and LPCC

Decay Heat
* ANS-5.1 is not appropriate for this reactor

* TAC2D for carrying parametric studies during a LPCC event

% damian_vhtr_2008
What they did:
- fuel cell and fuel column analyses
- 2D and 3D core configurations
- including the coupling between neutronic and thermal-hydraulic

Thermal analysis at the core hot spot.
Capability to reduce the maximum fuel temperature by modifying the design parameters.
Best performance for an annular fuel compact with coolant flowing inside and outside the compact.
Changes in the fuel compact distribution: reduction of the number of fuel compact in the outer ring of the fuel element.

Full core configuration show that the radial positioning of the fuel elements allows to reduce significantly the power peaking factor and the maximum fuel temperature.
Other modifications were addressed such as the increase of the bypass fraction and the replacement of a part of the graphite reflector by material with better thermal properties.

First part: thermal calculations on the steady-state configurations.
Calculations performed on the fuel cell geometry and the fuel column geometry at the core hot spot location.
Calculations using CAST3M code: 3D thermal coupled with 1D hydraulic modeling.
Pin power distribution come from 2D core calculations performed with the transport code APOLLO2.
Parametric studies to increase the outlet temperature: reduce helium flow, increase the average power density, and increase the active core height.

Second part:
2D core configuration.
Neutronic analysis dedicated to the minimization of the radial power peaking factor.
Various options: impact of fuel enrichment, fuel loading, and fuel management scheme.

Last part:
Analysis of the 3D core model using the coupled neutronic/thermal-hydraulic tool developed by CEA.
NEPTHIS/CAST3M.
Design parameters influence evaluated:helium bypass fraction, average power density, core geometry, reflector materials properties and fuel loading strategy.
Core depletion calculations including control rods modeling are performed in order to evaluate the impact on the power distribution.

NEPTHIS is based on a transport-diffusion calculation scheme using the transport code APOLLO2 and the transport-diffusion code CRONOS2.
Transport code calculates the fuel element in an infinite medium and provides condensed and homogenized cross-sections libraries.
The CAST3M/Arcturus model uses a two level approach:
- singularities of fuel particles, fuel compacts, and helium cooling channels with inter-assembly helium cavity are homogenized to obtain equivalent thermal properties for the porous media and the cooling gas.
- Thermal-hydraulics is solved on the homogenized geometry using CAST3M.

% bieder_qualification_2008
Sort of validation of the code applied to a PWR.

% cioni_3d_2006
Investigation of the effects of channel blockage.
2 configurations investigated:
- 1 blocked assemblies surrounded by 6 unblocked
- 1 blocked assembly surrounded by 5 unblocked assemblies and 1 reflector assembly.
CFD Code Trio_U: (Bieder et al. 2000)
- 3D conduction problem in the solid
- 1D thermal-hydraulic model for Helium

Fluid-solid coupling:
Colburn correlation: Nux = 0.023 Re**0.8 Pr**0.33

Graphite and fuel compacts are modeled using the same physical properties.
The power in the fuel is a chopped cosine:
P(x) = Po * 1.2 * cos(1.0267 (2x/H-1))

% ball_next_2008
Expert panels identified safety-relevant phenomena, ranked their importance, and assessed
the knowledge levels in the areas of accidents and thermal fluids, fission-product transport and dose,
high-temperature materials, graphite, and process heat for hydrogen production.

% lee_status_2006



% johnson_development_2008

% anderson_analysis_2007

% huning_novel_2016
One major step for licensing is the demonstration of successful passive safety operation of HTGRs for the design safety basis cases.
For HTGRs, these are the P-LOFC and D-LOFC cases.

Several different thermal hydraulic analysis tools exist to compute the core transient information to demonstrate LOFC safety margin.
These principally fall into three different categories: (a) CFD, (b) system level, and (c) unit cell or intermediate level.

CFD techniques are well equipped to compute the detailed assembly temperature profiles but are unable to perform whole-core calculations due to computational costs.

System-level codes such as RELAP are well equipped to compute core-level temperature profiles but it is also difficult to approximate the assembly geometry correctly using simple equivalent cylinder or slab models.

Unit cell and intermediate level techniques have he highest potential since whole-core calculations are possible with computed pin or near-pin-level temperature gradients for the hexagonal fuel assembly geometry.


Due to the significantly different flow and core geometry for gas reactors, typical LWR codes may not be suitable for the analysis of HTGRs.
Some options are to couple CFD core heat transfer calculations to system level calculations by relap.
Another option is using MELCOR-H2 for modeling secondary side transient analysis.
GAMMA+ code:
Kim et al 2010 %
GAMMA+ code is a code developed specifically to analyze air ingress events and hydrogen plant transients.
It solves the conservation equations for a mixture of many gas species and solid nodes.

The methology for simulating transients is different to simulating steady state temperatures.
Transient simulations can progress for hundreds or thousands of hours, so usually the spatial resolution in transient simulations is poorer than in steady state simulations.

CFD:
- Trio_U: Bieder and Graffard 2008 % bieder_qualification_2008
- FLUENT
- Fuego Sandia National Laboratories
- CFX 11, ANSYS
- STAR-CCM+, CD-adapco

Most interesting:
Sato et al. (2010). FLUENT.  0, 3, and 5 mm bypass gap width
Tak et al. (2008). CFX 11, ANSYS Inc. (2006). 1 and 5 mm bypass gap width
Wang et al. (2014). STAR-CCM+. Bypass and cross-flow estimation.

Important conclusions:
- Without whole-core modeling, computed individual mass flow distributions for partial assembly cases were based on average core assembly flow rates instead of their exact values.
This leads to under predicted fuel temperatures for the particular assemblies that had lower flow rates than the average.
- Assuming flat power profiles for all core assembly leads to lower computed assembly temperatures.
- Disagreement on which turbulence models and CFD methods are more suitable for HTGRs.
	- Sato et al 2010 and Tak et al 2008 used standard k-epsiolon model
	- Johnson 2008 determined that such model does not predicts unsteady vortex shedding correctly and suggest using the Reynolds stress model RSM instead.
	- CFD modeling differences yield differences in peak fuel temperatures by as much as 100C.
- CFD calculations require a minimum number of computational cells to model a single assembly of 2x10^6 for a 3D calculation.
Extrapolating to a whole core calculation, the mesh would need at least 85 million cells.
Hence, the method is not practical for commercial reactor safety analysis.

Unit Cell and Non-CFD Core thermal hydraulic analyses:

The NGNP point design considers both the pebble bed and prismatic type VHTR designs.
The goal of the analysis was to perform parametric sensitivity studies to establish an analytical starting point for future evaluations by quantifying the impact of variations to key design parameters such as core power, power density, assembly geometry, fuel configuration and
others.
The parametric studies investigated the impact of bypass flow, flow distribution, and total reactor power.
Some recomendations of such study are to switch to annlar fuel compacts to reduce the compact thermal resistance, reduce the gap space between the compact and graphite block, reduce the diameter of the compacts while increasing the number of compacts per assembly.

One other design study was performed by Damian 2008
Damian, 2008 % damian_vhtr_2008
Thermal hydraulic and neutronic trade-off studies were performed using the 3D thermal hydraulic code CAST3M and neutronics calculation scheme NEPHTIS
Cavalier et al. 2006
Detailed thermal calculations on a hot spot assembly
Parametric studies to reduce the max fuel temperature:
Most effective approach to reduce the radial peaking factor
Fuel burnup, fuel loading, and enrichment options analyzed

LOFC analyses:
- NGNP point design MacDonald 2003
- MHTGR case Williams et al. 1989
Williams et al. 1989
ORNL Code MORECA
- GTHTR-300 Sato et al. 2013
Sato et al. 2013
RELAP5-3D wit Point Reactor Kinetics Model
- AREVA SC-HTGR Lommers et al. 2014
Star-CD poros media based solver

If the RCCS does not operate normally temperatures might raise beyond the design limits.
Some alternatives are adding an insulation layer.
However such approach would increase fuel temperatures.

Fine mesh CFD methods are not equipped to simulate the whole core and primary system over the course of a long transient (100+ hours), and  realistic power profiles have not been fully employed in the various LOFC safety studies

% tak_practical_2012
Local analyses widely used by modeling a unit cell or single assembly instead of a whole-core geometry.
In spite of the recent rapid development of the computational fluid dynamics (CFD) technology, a whole-core CFD analysis for a prismatic reactor still requires tremendous computational expense.
This paper presents a practical method for the whole-core thermal analysis of a prismatic gas-cooled reactor.

3D heat conduction equation for a solid as in a CFD code.
1D conservation equations adopted for a fluid as in a system code.
Significant computational expense reduction.
The method adopts the basic unit cell concept which eliminates an elaborate grid generation process.

Because of the complex geometry of the HTGR, local analyses have been widely used for thermal analysis and design.
The most popular approach is the unit cell method.
6-12:

The unit cell model ignores the heat transfer within the fuel block.
- Cioni et al. 2006. CFD analysis of one fuel assembly surrounded by six half-fuel assemblies.
They focused on the ability of the coolant to cool down the fuel under blockages of different fuel channels.
- Tak et al 2008. CFD analysis of 1/12 of the fuel assembly
- Sato et al. 2010
- Kim et al. analyzed the 1/2 section of a single control fuel assembly

- Simoneau et al 2005 CFD of an entire reactor (30 deg). The fuel blocks were homogenized into triangular posts.
- Tochio and Nakagawa performed CFD analysis for the 1/6 of a 30 MW HTTR in 2005
- Pointer and Thomas 2010. 1/6 of the reactor using CFD. Internal structures of the reactor core, fuel, control fuel, and reflector blocks as well as bypass flow gaps were precisely modeled.

Whole core models are desirable for transient analyses.
Coupled analysis require full core models.

Alternative method to whole core analysis:
- system calculation: however the accuracy of the fuel block temperatures is sacrificed because of the simplification of the geometries.
3D in solids and 1D in coolant:
13,21
In a prismatic fuel block, the geometry of a solid is very complex whereas the geometry of the fluid channel is simple.
Uses finite volumes and unit cells.

% gougar_htgr_2016
RELAP-3D
Coupled to PHISICS for prismatic reactor steady-state and transient analysis.
Others: GRSAC (ORNL), GRSAC (ORNL), FLOWNEX (flownex.com), RELAP-7(INL), AGREE(NRC), MGT (FZ-Jülich),
THERMIX-DIREKT (FZ-Jülich).

% melese_thermal_1984
Ideally, all core cavity components should be designed to discharge coolant at the same helium temperature into the lower plenum.
If components such as the side reflector are designed to require a large quantity of coolant that is heated relatively little, other components such as the core will necessarily have to supply helium at temperatures above the average hot helium temperature.
This leads to temperature differences ("hot streaks") entering a steam generator, thus complicating its design.

A method for describing the power distribution in the fuel rods in the core
is needed for the thermal design calculations.
Examples:
* GATT: 3D diffusion tool
* 2D radial diffusion GAUGE: radial power distribution + 1D axial power shapes using BUGTRI.

Studies on 3000 MWt HTGR based on the Fort St Vrain design.

The temperatures in the core have to be kept below values that begin to cause damage to fission product barriers, produce structural material weakness, and lead to excessive chemical reaction rates.

* Unit cell models:
To understand some basic aspects of heat transfer in the prismatic HTGR
fuel element, simple models are helpful.
Various correction factors to this basic model have been devised to account for these special effects (like radial peaking factor).

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

https://www.researchgate.net/scientific-contributions/82618217_Nam-il_Tak

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% Multi physics maybe %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

% damian_vhtr_2008

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% Mechanics maybe %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

% melese_thermal_1984
Talks about thermal stresses

% kang_thermo-mechanical_2012

