% tak_numerical_2008
ABSTRACT
The complex geometry of the hexagonal fuel assembly hinders accurate evaluations of the temperature profile without elaborate numerical calculations.
Several studies have used simplified approaches to reduce the computational time.
The unit cell model is an example of such approaches.
Such model does not consider the radial power distribution within the fuel assembly or the bypass flow between assemblies.
Such simplifications may affect the maximun fuel temperature.
The authors conducted a 3D \gls{CFD} analysis on a typical prismatic HTGR fuel assembly.
The authors compare the accuracy of the unit cell model against the CFD solutions.

INTRODUCTION
HTGR advantages are an inherent safety, high thermal efficiency, and a high temperature process heat potential.
Higher fuel temperature achieves higher outlet temperature.
However, undesirably high temperatures jeopardize the integrity of the TRISO particles (as well as the fission products release).
The design limit in HTGR is 1250 C. (check)

The analysis of prismatic \gls{HTGR} has widely used simplified computational models, among which we find the equivalent cylinder model and the unit cell model.

Several studies have adopted the equivalent cylinder model:
* NO et al. 2007 % no_multi-component_2007
* Reza et al. 2006 % reza_design_2006
* Nakano et al. 2007 % nakano_conceptual_2008

Several studies have solved the multi-dimensional head conduction based on the unit cell model:
* Bays et al. 2006
* In et al. 2006 % in_three-dimensional_2006
* Richards et al. 2007 % richards_thermal_2007
The unit cell model assumes that the heat generated in the fuel is only removed by the coolant.

Such simplified approaches are helpful to understand some basic aspects of prismatic fuel blocks.
Thermal-hydraulic evaluations of prismatic fuels using more detailed models than the unit cell model are rare, particularly in the open literature.

General Atomics analyzed detailed thermal behaviors of the fuel blocks of HTGRs using a model named DEMISE but limited information is available in the book written by Melese and Katz (1984).
* Melese and Katz 1984

Using a CFD code named Trio_U, Cioni et al. (2004) made three-dimensional thermo-fluid simulations of prismatic fuel assemblies of a HTGR.
They modeled seven fuel assemblies in detail and paid attention to the heat transfer between the fuel assemblies with/without a blockage of the coolant channels.
* Cioni et al. 2004

Simoneau et al. (2005) numerically analyzed the passive heat removal characteristics of a prismatic VHTR using a commercial CFD code.
They applied a simplified three-dimensional reactor model.
They used homogenized triangular posts since they were interested in the overall system behavior.
* Simoneau et al. 2005

DESCRIPTIONS OF THE PRISMATIC FUEL ASSEMBLY
The analysis focuses on the fuel assembly of the PMR600, whose reference reactor is the GT-MHR (cite GA?)

NUMERICAL ANALYSIS
The model includes a 1/12 th section of the fuel due to its symmetry.
The authors impose a uniform power density profile for the simulations.
The study determines the flow distribution using the one-dimensional hydraulic equations.
The calculation assumes the same pressure drop across the entire height of the reactor core.
Re = 40000 in coolant channel and 2000 in bypass gap.

The commercial code CFX 11 (cite ANSYS Inc) performed the CFD calculations.

NUMERICAL RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS
The innermost fuel and coolant channels reach the highest temperatures.
The temperature of the bypass region is close to that of the adjacent graphite block.
A large temperature gradient at the top and bottom of the active core show that the axial conduction through the reflectors is not significant.
The bypass flow is comparable to the average coolant exit temperature.
This suggests that the bypass flow contributes effectively to the cooling of the heat generated in the fuel compacts.

A comparison against the unit cell model shows that its overall predictions are reasonable.
However, by neglecting the heat transfer within the assembly, the model underpredicts the maximum fuel temperature by 20$^{\circ}$C.

The fast neutron irradiation causes dimensional changes in graphite.
Therefore, the bypass gap size varies with the fuel burn-up.
The authors conducted a parametric study in which they analyzed the impact of the bypass gap size on the maximum fuel temperature.
Increasing the bypass flow gap increases the maximum fuel temperature.
The results of this study indicate that the accuracy of the unit cell worsens for larger gaps.

The last study imposes different radial peaking factors for the different fuel channels.
Such a study shows the effects of considering a non-flat radial power distribution.
The radial power distribution considered by the authors does not have a strong impact on the maximum fuel temperature.

SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
The unit cell model is a reasonable approximation if the bypass flow is small and the radial power profile within the assembly is uniform.



% sato_computational_2010
ABSTRACT
The geometry of the graphite blocks changes over the lifetime of the reactor because of thermal expansion and irradiation damage.
They conducted three-dimensional \gls{CFD} calculations of a typical prismatic \gls{HTGR} to better understand the bypass flow phenomena.
They used the commercial CFD code FLUENT.

They carry out parametric calculations changing several factors on a one-twelfth portion of a fuel column.
Factors include bypass gap-width, turbulence model, axial heat generation profile and geometry change due to irradiation-induced shrinkage in the graphite block region.
The bypass flow provides a significant cooling effect on the prismatic block.
The maximum fuel and coolant channel outlet temperatures increases with an increase in gap-width.
Applying a peak radial factor to the heat generation rate affects the outlet temperature.
The presence of bypass flow causes a large lateral temperature gradient in the block.
Large temperature gradients cause excessive thermal stresses which raise potential structural issues.

INTRODUCTION
Reactor core design has widely applied simplified approaches such as flow network calculations and unit cell models.
* Takada et al 2004
* Nakano et al 2008

Tak et al. 2008
The coolant mass flow was computed using a separate one-dimensional code.
The mass flow rates are determined as part of the solution in the present study.

FLUENT (citation)

REFERENCE PRISMATIC VHTR
The GT-MHR (GA citation 1996) is the reference reactor for the calculations.
The non-uniform neutron fluences and temperature distributions in the actual core cause non-uniform deformations in the graphite block over its lifetime, creating complex bypass flow pathways.

CORE BYPASS MODELING
The flow rates in the coolant channels are strong functions of the wall friction.
Parametric studies modify the following factors: gap-width, turbulence model, heat generation profile, geometry change of the blocks resulting from irradiations.

Reynolds-averaged Navier–Stokes approach.
Finite volume method.
Momentum, energy, and viscous terms are discretized using the second-order upwind scheme.
They used the algorithm SIMPLE for the Pressure-velocity coupling.

Tak et al set mass flow rates for each channel and gap as determined from a separate one-dimensional code.
However, the friction in the channels is dependent on the viscosity which is highly dependent on the temperature.
Therefore the mass flow rates are a function of the thermal characteristics of the problem, which are not known a priori.

THERMAL PROPERTIES:
Graphite: H-451 graphite.
Fuel compact properties:
* MacDonald et al. 2003
* Johnson et al. 2010

VALIDATION STUDY:
The study used two turbulence models: $k \sim \varepsilon$ and $k \sim \omega$.

The friction factor is a major factor affecting flow distribution in the fuel column.
They compared the computed wall shear stress for the turbulence models with empirical correlations.

Past studies:
* Shehata and McEligot 1995
* Mikielewicz et al 2002
* McEligot and Jackson 2004
have shown that the heat transfer and wall friction of strongly heated internal gas flow can be significantly affected by buoyancy or acceleration because of property variation.
Some turbulence models cannot predict well the correct velocity and temperature profiles in such situations.
In the present study, representative acceleration parameters (kV) and Jackson buoyancy parameters (Bo) are less thatn 1e-6 and 1e-7, respectively.
Hence, those effects are considered negligible.

The friction factors are corrected for variable fluid properties by the expression given by Schlichting and Gersten (2000).
(It seems that this will be useful).

RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS
COMPARATIVE STUDY OF TURBULENCE MODELS
Bulk mean temperatures for the k–omega model case are considerably lower than those for the k–epsilon model.
Differences go up to 49$^{\circ}$C.
The overall mass flow rate is about 10% greater for the k–omega model compared to the k– e model.

COMPARATIVE STUDY OF HEAT GENERATION PROFILES
In a prismatic \gls{HTGR}, the heat generation rate is not uniform.
They apply a non-uniform heat generation rates in the axial direction at average and peak radial factors.
The profile is a chopped sine.
Comparison against the uniform profile case.
Bulk mean temperatures and mass flow rates for the cases of uniform and axial variation at the average radial factor are almost the same.
The differences in maximum fuel temperatures between the cases of uniform and axial variation at the peak radial factor are 160 $^{\circ}$C.
Mass flow rates for the case of axial variation at the peak radial factor are significantly lower than for the other cases.

COMPARATIVE STUDY OF GEOMTRY CHANGES IN BLOCK REGION
Fuel column including upper and lower reflectors, is shrunk by 1.23% in the radial direction and by 2.35% in axial direction uniformly.
These are the maximum dimensional changes experienced by H-451 graphite from irradiation.
The shrinkage increases the gap-width, decreases the diameter of the coolant channels, and decreases the length of the column.

Significantly higher temperatures are observed in the solid region for the no-shrinkage case (max fuel temperature decreases by 63 C), although temperatures in the coolant regions show only small differences between the two cases (within 9 C).
A lower gap outlet temperature is observed for the shrinkage case because the gap flow is higher.
Mass flow rates for the two cases are also not significantly different except in the gap region where the case with shrinkage is considerably higher.



% no_multi-component_2007
ABSTRACT
The air ingress event following a LOCA is a cause of concern.
Following the depressurization of helium in the core, there exists the potential for air to enter the core through the break and oxidize the in-core graphite structure.
This study developed the code GAMMA.
The authors assessed its performance using a two-bulb experiment.
Following, they investigated the guillotine break of the main pipe between the reactor vessel and the power conversion unit.
As part of the study, they improved the code RELAP5 for the \gls{HTGR} air ingress analysis.

DEVELOPMENT AND ASSESMENT OF GAMMA CODE
The GAMMA code solves multi-dimensional heat conduction, multi-dimensional fluid flow, chemical reactions, and multi-component molecular diffusion, fluid heat transfer and pressure drop, and radiation heat transfer.

GENERAL FEATURES OF GAMMA CODE
The code solves two set of equations for both the gas and the solid parts.
The basic equations use the porous media model formulation to consider the heat transport in solid-fluid mixed components.
Porous media:
* Nield and Bejan 1999

Together with the multi-dimensional analysis feature, GAMMA has one-dimensional analysis capability modeling a general network of pipe flow.

The code solves the fueled zone one-dimensional heat conduction equation.
The heat transport between the fluid and the solid uses the hea transper relation: qsf = h(TWall - TFluid).

The code also considers the radiative heat transfer by using an irradiation/radiosity method
* Holman 1986
which assumes that the radiation exchange between surfaces is gray and diffuse.

ASSESSMENT OF THE ONSET TIME OF NATURAL CIRCULATION (OTNC)
They used GAMMA to predict the onset time of the natural circulation in the inverse U-tube experiment.

Another study chose the GT-MHR reactor as a reference plant.
Assesment that considers different reactor cavity free volumes and different average temperatures for the RCCS surface.
2D geometry models to consider the multi-dimensional flow and heat transport.
They compared the OTNC and the naturual circulation flow for each case.


RELAP5/ATHENA CODE IMPROVEMENTS:
They improved the code RELAP5/ATHENA (INEEL, 2005) by implementing models for molecular diffusion and graphite oxidation.
The molecular diffusion model calculates the diffusion of several species of gas using a network of control volumes.
They conducted the validation of the models using theoretical and experimental results.

RELAP5 ASSESSMENT
The code was validated using molecular data from an inverted U-tube experiment and natural circulation data for flow through a pebble bed.

CONCLUSIONS
The RELAP5 code has been improved significantly for the analysis of the VHTR.
The improvements allow the code to simulate air ingress following LOCAs due to the effects of molecular diffusion.



% reza_design_2006
ABSTRACT

Efficient hydrogen production requires higher coolant temperatures, which in turn increases the temperatures of the reactor pressure vessel.
The presence of high temperatures introduces a unique design challenge for the reactor pressure vessel during steady-state operation.

This work conducts thermal hydraulic analyses of the GT-MHR design with higher temperatures to enable hydrogen production.

Using the RELAP5-3D/ATHENA computer code, the authors evaluated alternative coolant inflow paths in an attempt to reduce the reactor vessel temperatures.

ATHENA CALCULATION
ATHENA (citation) is a network analysis tool based on RELAP5-3D (citation).
The RELAP5-3D/ATHENA is a simplified model that examines the core behavior.

RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
Propose an alternative coolant inlet flow configurations.
Comparison of different new coolant flow path configurations.

They also calculated the peak reactor vessel temperature and the peak fuel temperature for low and high pressure conduction cool-down events.

* Peak fuel temperature around ~1106C at SS
* Design fuel temperature limit of 1600C
* high pressure conduction cooldown (HPCC): 5.03 MPa
* low pressure conduction cooldown (LPCC): 1 atm



% nakano_conceptual_2008
The \gls{VHTR} uses higher temperatures to enable higher efficiencies for hydrogen and electricity production.
To attain such temperatures the reactor requires an increase of the fuel flow and consequently a reduction of the core bypass flow.
The authors conducted three-dimensional thermal hydraulic analyses to determine the fuel and bypass flow fractions.
They also propose different alternative designs to achieve the higher fuel flow.

CORE INTERNAL AND BY-PASS FLOW
They evaluated the effect of restricting the core bypass flow on the fuel temperature in normal operation.

3D FEM model to calculate the effect of the core bypass flow.
They ANSYS v.10 code (citation ?) 

The 3D model includes RPV and core internals and core fuels, but it is limited to 120 
degree sector.

CORE AND FP RELEASE ANALYSES
At the beginning of burnup, the deep insertion of control rods makes the power density larger in the bottom region.
The withdrawal of control rods at the end of cycle leads larger power density at the top of the core.

They used the FLOWNET code to obtain the fuel channel flow rate.
The model consists of a flow network and heat transport path network.

For the fuel temperature, they used TAC-2D (citation) code with the power density calculated in the nuclear analysis and the flow rate calculated in the flow distribution analysis.
The calculation model is the two-dimensional cylindrical model for a hot channel fuel pin cell.

Asymmetry of the unit cell configuration makes the temperature distribution asymmetric in the graphite block and it leads to a temperature difference between the actual and the analytical coolant model.

FP RELEASE CALCULATION:
Diffusion in the particles, sorption, and diffusion in the fuel matrix and in the graphite region, evaporation and mass transfer on the graphite surface into the coolant.



% in_three-dimensional_2006
INTRODUCTION
The maximum fuel temperature in the core hot spot is one of the important design parameters for a PMR.
The objective of this study is to predict the hot-spot fuel temperature distribution in a PMR at a steady-state.
The CFD code CFX-10 (citation) calculated the three-dimensional temperature distribution in a PMR at steady-state.
The analysis focused on the GT-MHR600.

CFD MODEL
The model includes only a one-sixth of the two fuel channels and a single coolant channel due to the symmetry of the fuel block.

DESIGN OPERATING CONDITIONS
P = 70 bar
Mass flow rate per coolant channel: 0.0176 kg/s
Core average inlet temp = 399 C

* q'''_average = 33.3, 33.1, 35.0 MW/m3 at BOC, MOC, and EOC

The thermal conductivities of the fuel compact, fuel gap, and graphite vary with temperature.
The physical properties of helium also depend on the temperature.

RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS
Temperature profile at EOC.
Max fuel temperature is 1295 C
The bulk exit coolant temperature is 1144 C
Fuel temperature design limit = 1250 C

CONCLUSIONS
It was also found that either the power density or the axial power peak should be
decreased by more than 5% and 10%, respectively, for the PMR core in order to meet the fuel temperature limit.



% richards_thermal_2007 (This one won't we included in the lit review for the moment)
ABSTRACT
The authors compared different fuel element designs for the GT-MHR using RELAP-3D/ATHENA, POKE, and CFX computer codes.
Other proposed design modifications include reduction of the bypass flow and alternative inlet-flow configurations.

* see if conventional LWR materials could be used for a VHTR vessel

ATHENA: Advanced Thermal Energy Network Analysis (Carlson, 1986)
To asses the impact of higher coolant temperatures on steady-state vessel temperatures, parasitic RCCS heat losses, and peak fuel temperatures during LOCAs.
GT-MHR inlet configuration and two alternative inlet flow configurations evaluated.
Routing the inlet flow through the inner reflector resulted in a greater loss of heat capacity, increasing fuel temperatures by 40 C during a LOCA.

POKE (Kapernick, 1993), calculations on the unit cell:
Two designs: Fort St Vrain: 10 row (10 row of fuel holes across the flats)
increased to 12 row. Also reduction of the fuel coolant holes and coolant holes.
This reduces the max temperatures by 34 C.

POKE and ATHENA:
Study the effects of lowering the coolant inlet temperature and also decrease the total coolant flow rate



% cioni_3d_2005
ABSTRACT
This work presents the results from 3D numerical simulations of assemblies of a \gls{HTGR}.
The objective of the study was to investigate an emergency situation due to the blocking of He channels in the core.
They investigated two configurations.
In one configuration, six fuel elements surround the fuel element with the blockage.
In the other one, five fuel elements and one reflector element surround it.
The CFD code Trio_U performed the numerical study.
The model included a 3D conduction problem for the solid coupled to a simplified 1D thermal-hydraulic modeling for the coolant.
The results suggested that the blockage increases the temperature on the blocked fuel assembly only and it does not affect the surrounding elements due to the bypass flow.

PRELIMINARY WORK
Analysis of the effects of the bypass flow. Two configurations: 0% and 19% of the total He flow rate.
Analysis of the consequences of two different blocking in a portion of a fuel assembly.
Central and peripheral blocking. The central blocking causes a larger temperature increase.

PHYSICAL AND NUMERICAL MODELING
The spatial discretization uses the \gls{FVM}.

The fuel and graphite use the same material properties (the ones from graphite).

Helium model:
\rho (T(x), x) * u (x) = \dot{qo}

Energy Balance: Advection-diffusion equation.

Fluid/solid coupling: Nusselt number correlation (Colburn correlation)
Nu_x = 0.023 Rex^0.8 Prx^0.33
Rex = Re number at position x
Prx = Pr number at position x

RESULTS
The analysis blocks 24 channels.
The temperature rises to 1920 C exceeding the design limit (1600 C).



% simoneau_three-dimensional_2007
They call the transients depressurized and pressurized, I believe these are LPCC and HPCC.

ABSTRACT
Three dimensional model to simulate the passive heat removal in a \gls{PMR} during \gls{LPCC} and \gls{HPCC} events.
Model used the CFD code STAR-CD.
Solves conductive, convective, and radiative heat transfer within a 30d eg section of the core and reactor vessel.
To accommodate the different spatial scales, it uses homogeneous equivalent media to represent the coolant flow and the prismatic fuel blocks.

INTRODUCTION
The objective of this paper is to present the implementation of a 3-D HPCC computation and the resulting thermal response of the reactor.

KEY FEATURES OF THE REACTOR DESIGN
During reactor operation, however, the blocks experience size changes due to the effects of thermal expansion, which reduces the gap size, and irradiation of the graphite, which tends to shrink the graphite, increasing the gap size.
Thus, the bypass flow behavior changes greatly from fresh to used blocks.

ASSUMPTION FOR DECAY HEAT REMOVAL TRANISENTS
LPCC: Conduction mostly, some radiation, and some convection contribute to the heat removal process.
The helium pressure is on the order of atmospheric pressure due to equilibrium with air in the reactor cavity volume.
HPCC: natural convection has a larger contribution than in the previous case.

THE NUMERICAL MODEL AND CODE
The code STAR-CD (citation) performed the calculations.
It solves the equations of fluid flow and heat transfer using a \gls{FVM} discretization.
The algorithms SIMPLE and PISO link the pressure to the velocity for the steady state and transient cases, respectively.
They modeled turbulence only during steady-state using the standard linear k-epsilon model and wall functions.
Heat transfer by thermal radiation is modeled by face-to-face exchanges of energy using a discrete beam method to calculate the view factors.
The model assumes all the surfaces to be gray and diffuse.

Important: the transient calculations assume laminar flow, and avoid calculating turbulence.

The blocks are modeled by a homogeneous equivalent solid medium.
The solid-fluid heat transfer and the pressure drop across the core are prescribed via coefficients (the boundary layer is not resolved).

The helium properties are assumed to be temperature independent.
The thermal conductivity of graphite depends on its temperature and irradiation history.

The code uses the porous medium model to represent the coolant channels in the fuel blocks.
The graphite of the fuel blocks themselves is represented by a separate set of mesh cells.
Because the solid parts and fluid parts of the model in this region are coupled, the two sets of cells are overlaid in the model.
The overlapping fluid and solid cells are coupled by calculating the heat flux from the fluid to the solid: q = K(T f − T s ).
K includes conduction, radiation, and convection. 
It was calculated from a explicit model of a single fuel block.

Validation of the porous media model using a single fuel block.
Comparison against the explicit model.

The Courant number yields time steps of 10^-3 to 10^-1 s.
The heat transfer in the solid requires the simulation of tens of hours, with 100 h being typical.
The model uses a method to alternate between small and large time steps.

CONCLUSIONS
The LPCC case has been examined by many investigators.
The HPCC case has not been investigated as widely.

The extra convective heat transfer reduced the peak temperature of both the fuel and the pressure vessel.
It leads to thermal stratification in the surrounding air and higher temperature in the upper reactor structures.



% takada_core_2004
ABSTRACT
They carried out the thermal-hydraulic design of the HTTR.
To evaluate coolant flow distribution and maximum fuel temperature, they used the experimental results such as heat transfer coefficient and pressure loss coefficient.

DESIGN DETAILS
The flow  network analysis code FLOWNET calculated the coolant flow rate and temperature distributions.
The calculation model consists of one-dimensional flow branches and pressure nodes.

The code TEMDIM calculates the fuel temperature using a cylindrical model, based on the power distribution.

CONCLUSIONS
The authors carried out the validation of the thermal-hydraulic design code by comparing the results with the experimental data from the HTTR.




% huning_steady_2014
LITERATURE REVIEW
Modeling and prediction of core thermal hydraulic behavior is essential for both normal operation and transient safety.
Thermal hydraulic modeling studies for early gas-cooled reactor designs such as Fort Saint Vrain and Peach Bottom Unit 1 are limited and consist mainly of support calculations for NRC safety analysis reports.
Thermal analysis methods for these early HTGRs relied on sets of independent codes that employed simplistic approximations for flow, core, assembly and fuel heat transfer modeling.

Early thermal analysis codes:
* shenoy_htgr_1974

Later reactor designs including the MHTGR and GT-MHR used the same or similar set of codes as those listed above to perform thermal analysis for safety analysis and conceptual design reports.
The central modeling technique of these analyses is the equivalent fuel-moderator-coolant triangular unit cell or node.
A simple homogeneous geometry is formed.
The disadvantage is that explicit fuel and graphite temperatures are not computed.
(I think he is confusing things here. In the unit cell model, the fuel and graphite are modeled explicitly.)

It is of interest whether 1-D flow modeling of coolant and bypass channels provides sufficient accuracy for convective heat transfer coefficient prediction.

While most of the studies discussed assume consistent sets of key design parameters such as assembly block and fuel dimensions, there is significant variation in operational parameters such as inlet coolant temperature, core flow rate or desired average coolant outlet temperature, and core power.
Graphite and fuel material properties can also be different depending on the author or study.

CORE HEAT TRANSFER
* macdonald_ngnp_2003
INL performed a neutronic and thermal-hydraulic point design study in support for the NGNP.
They conducted parametric studies varying key design parameters such as core power, power density, assembly geometry, fuel configuration and others.
They performed both steady state and transient analyses.
Analysis of maximum core temperatures by varying the bypass flow fraction, flow distribution, and reactor power.
The steady state method employed the POKE code to simulate one third of the core.
The code approximates core transfer using triangular unit cells.
The bypass and coolant flow distribution was fixed and not explicitly determined.

I say this {
I think the 3D unit cell model divides all the reactor in triangles that homogenize coolant, graphite, and fuel.
It calculates the coolant distribution and temperatures.
Then uses that as a boundary condition for the unit cell.
Maybe it solves one unit cell for each assembly.
}

First observation: the maximum fuel temperature increases when bypass flow is increased.
Another observation: the maximum fuel temperatures could be reduced by 100C if flow could be increased in hot coolant channels and decreased in channels next to lower power or cooler fuel compacts.
Another one: Increasing core power by adding active fuel blocks above the existing active core could be achieved without increasing maximum fuel temperatures.

While these parametric studies revealed promising design modifications for the VHTR, a high degree of uncertainty remains due to the lack of explicit flow prediction and equivalent triangular unit cell modeling.


Since the NGNP point design study, there have been limited core heat transfer parametric design studies for HTGRs.
One parametric core heat transfer study was conducted by Damian 2008:
* damian_vhtr_2008

In addition to unit cell methods, CFD has also been used to analyze block or assembly level thermal hydraulics.
* bieder_qualification_2008
Analyzed partial helium channel blocking
The code uses a hybrid finite volume finite element method for unstructured 3D grids, and supports both RANS and LES modeling.
Various RANS turbulence models can be used including the k-epsilon model, k-w based SST model, or a Reynolds stress model.

* cioni_3d_2005

* tak_numerical_2008

This work (huning_steady_2014) presents a remedy for the triangular unit cell method to better estimate the intra-assembly heat conduction rates.

COOLANT FLOW
* lee_status_2006
Performed core flow modeling and sensitivity studies for prismatic modular reactors.
Modeling of coolant flow based on a 2D flow path and resistance network approach.
Each fuel assembly modeled as a single channel with additional channels for axial bypass flow and lateral cross flow.
The conservation equations for mass and momentum are solved using an assumed temperature profile based on the anticipated power profile predicted in the same study.
Objective was to identify flow paths that contribute to bypass flow the most.
Vertical assembly gaps in the replaceable reflector region and near the permanent side reflector were identified as main bypass flow contributors.
Cross flow was not found to play a substantial role in coolant flow distribution under normal operating conditions.

* sato_computational_2010

* johnson_development_2008
CFD analysis of the lower plenum flow.
Computations performed using FLUENT.
The simulations address several questions: whether 2D or 3D calculations, fine or coarse grids are necessary.
And what boundary conditions result more appropriate.

* anderson_analysis_2007
CFD model of the lower plenum.
Goal to determine the degree of mixing in the lower plenum.

SUMMARY AND PATH FORWARD
Fine mesh CFD methods are more accurate but have not been applied to the whole core due to computational cost.

Some approaches couple system analysis code such as RELAP for large core domains and CFD for local or detailed regions.
This could be computationally efficient and provide accurate maximum fuel temperature and bypass flow predictions.

Huning redeveloped the unit cell method to adequately predict the axial and radial heat conduction within each assembly block.

Thermal fluid properties for graphite, helium, and fuel compact material are taken from:
* johnson_cfd_2009




% shenoy_htgr_1974
ANALYTICAL METHODS
Based on the principles of conservation of mass, momentum, and energy.

Steady-state analysis: (Table 4-1)
* FLAC:
Determines the coolant flow distribution in the coolant channels and gaps.
Solves the 1-D Momentum Equation for incompressible flow.
Solves continuity eqs of mass and energy.
Models the density changes in the gas.

* POKE:
It solves the coolant mass flow, coolant temperature, and fuel temperature distribution in an HTGR core.
Steady-state mass and momentum conservation equations for parallel channels, solved using finite differences.
Imposes the power distribution.

* DEMISE/DEMICE: determines the steady state 3D temperature distribution in 1/2 columns of standard elements (DEMISE) and control elements (DEMICE).
It solves the temperature distribution in a network model using a successive point iteration.
It calculates the flow distribution by balancing pressure drop in coolant passages.

* BACH:
It calculates the steady-state core power/flow ratio to achieve a desired maximum fuel temperature.
It calculates the coolant channel mass flow by balancing the pressure drop for a single channel.
It calculates the gas temperatures from energy balance equations.

* HEXT:
To determine steady-state temperature distribution and equivalent thermal conductances in fuel, fuel-mdoerator gap, and moderator in a unit cell of HTGR type fuel elements.
It solves the heat conduction equation in 2D geometries.

* TREVER:
To determine from given power distributions the steady-state coolant, graphite, and fuel temperatures.
TO determine time and space distribution of coating failure.
It solves 1D (radial) steady-state heat transfer.

* TAC-2D:
It is a general purpose 2D thermal analysis code.
Solves the 2D heat conduction equation by finite differences using an implicit iteration method.

* DETRAC:
Solves 1D nodal transient heat transfer equations with no axial or radial conduction between channels.

1D unit cell code BACH and HEXT
BACH 1D describes heat and coolant flow in a single coolant channel in the core.

Transient analysis:
* TAP code:
To study the overall plant transient behavior of HTGRs.
It incorporates models of all major components of the nuclear steam supply.
The reactor and primary coolant model in the program accounts for all helium temperature changes in the primary coolant system including heating in the core and cooling in the steam generator.
The reactor core model in TAP consists of one average coolant channel surrounded by graphite and fuel.
It computes the average heat generation rate in the core and computes the average coolant, graphite, and fuel temperatures in the core.

* Single Channel Analysis TAC Model:
Coolant, graphite, and fuel temperature profiles within a unit cell.
Signle rod stacj surrounded by a gap and volume of graphite with a heat capacity and conductance equal to that of a unit cell.
The model extends the entire active core length with five axial nodes per fuel block and includes the top reflector, bottom reflector, and core support blocks.
The code uses time and temperature dependent material properties such as density, thermal conductivity, and heat capacity.

* DETRAC Code:
It calculates fuel and graphite temperatures within each refueling region.
It calculates the graphite and coolant temperatures at top and bottom reflector, and for each fuel block.

* RECA Code:
Preferred code when the radial conduction of energy between refueling regions is significant.
It calculates the axial distribution of average coolant, graphite, and fuel temperatures for each refueling region.
Reverse flow is possible for low-flow conditions and is accounted for by the core.
Cross-flow is not considered.



% melese_thermal_1984
Ideally, all core cavity components should be designed to discharge coolant at the same helium temperature into the lower plenum.
If components such as the side reflector are designed to require a large quantity of coolant that is heated relatively little, other components such as the core will necessarily have to supply helium at temperatures above the average hot helium temperature.
This leads to temperature differences ("hot streaks") entering a steam generator, thus complicating its design.

A method for describing the power distribution in the fuel rods in the core
is needed for the thermal design calculations.
Examples:
* GATT: 3D diffusion tool
* 2D radial diffusion GAUGE: radial power distribution + 1D axial power shapes using BUGTRI.

Studies on 3000 MWt HTGR based on the Fort St Vrain design.

The temperatures in the core have to be kept below values that begin to cause damage to fission product barriers, produce structural material weakness, and lead to excessive chemical reaction rates.

* Unit cell models:
To understand some basic aspects of heat transfer in the prismatic HTGR
fuel element, simple models are helpful.
Various correction factors to this basic model have been devised to account for these special effects (like radial peaking factor).



% bieder_qualification_2008
Validation of Trio_U applied to a PWR.



---> left here




% tak_practical_2012
ABSTRACT
Several studies have conducted local analyses on a unit cell or a single assembly instead of the whole-core geometry.
In spite of the recent rapid development inf CFD tools, a whole-core CFD analysis for a prismatic reactor still requires a tremendous computational expense.
This paper presents a practical method for the whole-core thermal analysis of a prismatic gas-cooled reactor.
The method solves the 3D heat conduction equation in the solid and the 1D conservation equation in the fluid.
The method adopts the basic unit cell concept which eliminates an elaborate grid generation process.
The method achieves a significant computational expense reduction.

INTRODUCTION
Because of the complex geometry of the HTGR, local analyses have been widely used for thermal analysis and design.
The most popular approach is the unit cell method.
6-12

More detailed analyses on fuel assemblies:
* Cioni et al. 2006
* Tak et al 2008
* Sato et al. 2010
* Kim et al. : analyzed the 1/2 section of a single control fuel assembly

The applications of the CFD technology were also expanded to an entire core analysis:
* Simoneau et al. 2005
* Tochio and Nakagawa performed CFD analysis for the 1/6 of a 30 MW HTTR in 2005
* Pointer and Thomas 2010. 1/6 of the reactor using CFD. Internal structures of the reactor core, fuel, control fuel, and reflector blocks as well as bypass flow gaps were precisely modeled.
Their objective was a coupled analysis with a nuclear physics code.

-- Important
A whole-core thermal analysis has many advantages over local models.
In general, more accurate boundary conditions can be applied.
Whole core models are desirable for transient analyses.
A coupled analysis with a nuclear physics code requires full core models.

Difficulties in whole-core analysis using a CFD code lie in the huge burden of computational effort.
A whole-core CFD analysis with geometric details is still challenging.
The other alternative method for a whole-core analysis might be a system calculation that uses simplified models.
* Lim and Kim: system calculation.
Fuel block temperatures have to be sacrificed because of the simplification of the geometries.

The present method intends to overcome the difficulties in CFD calculation as well as in system calculations.
The method solves the 3D heat conduction equation in solids and adopts the 1D fluid assumption for the coolant.
* cioni et al. 2006
* Takada et al. 2004

The application of the idea is still limited.
One of the main reasons seems to be another heavy burden to prepare the computational grids to model the entire core.
In order to enhance practicability, the present method adopts the basic unit cell concept, which eliminates an elaborate grid generation process.

DESCRIPTION OF PRISMATIC CORE DESIGN
The study focuses on the PMR200, whose reference design is the GT-MHR.

NUMERICAL METHOD
The present method focuses on the fact that a whole-core CFD analysis consumes most of the computing time in solving fluid conservation equations rather than solid.
In addition, the geometry of a solid is very complex whereas the geometry of the fluid channel is simple.

Uses finite volumes and unit cells.
The concept of a basic unit cell provides an efficient generation of unstructured computational grids for modeling the solid region of an entire fuel block.
The present method may be considered as an extension of the traditional unit cell method, which uses a single triangular unit cell.
In contrast to the existing unit cell method, the present method considers various shapes of the unit cells as well as the heat transfer be tween unit cells.

ONE DIMENSIONAL FLUID MODEL
The analysis of prismatic cores has widely applied one-dimensional models due to simple flow channel geometries.
The one-dimensional approximation avoids finer meshes near the walls as well as turbulence conservation equations.

VALIDATIONS USING SINGLE FUEL ASSEMBLY
The carried out the validation of the method by analyzing a fuel assembly and comparing the results to the commercial code CFX results.

WHOLE CORE ANALYSIS
Model of 1/6th of the reactor
The bypass gaps between the assemblies were also modeled using 1-D fluid channels.





----> Tak et al. DEVELOPMENT OF A CORE THERMO-FLUID ANALYSIS CODE FOR PRISMATIC GAS COOLED REACTORS. 2014





----> go back to references from: huning_steady_2014
% macdonald_ngnp_2003
% lee_status_2006




On the advantages/disadvantages of the porous media model:
% wu_investigating_2010
ABSTRACT
Therefore, this study investigates the thermal-hydraulic behaviors in a segment of pebbles predicted by the Reynolds-averaged Navier–Stokes (RANS) computational fluid dynamics (CFD) model using porous and realistic approaches for the complicated geometry.
A CFD simulation with the porous approach for the pebble geometry can quickly and reasonably capture the averaged behaviors of the thermal-hydraulic parameters as the gas flows through the core, including the pressure drop and temperature increase.
However, it is necessary to utilize the realistic approach for this complicated geometry to obtain the detailed and localized characteristics within the fluid and solid fuel regions.
The RANS CFD model with the realistic approach can simulate the flow anisotropic characteristics within the pores, which include flow separation, oscillation phenomena, and vortex formation.
The computation time needed for the simulation with the realistic approach is about 3000 times that needed for the porous approach.

CONCLUSIONS
Advantages of porous media model:
The number of meshes and computation time needed for a CFD simulation using the porous
approach are considerably lower than those needed for the CFD simulation using the realistic approach.

Disadvantages:
The RANS CFD model with the realistic approach can reasonably simulate the anisotropic thermal-hydraulic characteristics within the closely packed pebble geometry, including the vortices and flow separation in the pores, temperature variation around the pebble surface, and the variation in the Nu number with the azimuth and zenith angles.

It is necessary to utilize the realistic approach for this pebble geometry in order for the CFD modeling to capture the detailed and localized characteristics within the fluid and solid fuel regions.