Other nations
New HTGRs
HTR designs
Modular
VHTR
NGNP
Micro-HTGRs
- USNC - UIUC

Development history of the gas turbine modular high temperature reactor.
Brey
In 1969, the Japan Atomic Energy Research Institute initiated studies on the VHTR.

* HTGR prototype plants

Dragon reactor (UK)
First operated in July 1965.
Full operation by April 1966.
Terminated in March 1976.

Peach Bottom (US)
Initial criticality in March 3, 1966.
Into commercial operation in June 1967.
Shut down for decomissioning in October 1974.

* HTGR demonstration plants and large plant designs

FSV
Power generation achieved in December 1976.
Full power operation reachead in November 1981.
Finantial concerns by the utilities lead to the premature shutdown of the plant 1989.

* Early gas turbine HTGR assesment

Early 1980s
One of the early gas turbine designs was the HTGR-GT by Generat Atomics.
Size 2000 MWt/800 MWe. Tout = 850C.
Interest from utilities from the potential of the HTGR-GT for improved efficiencies at high core outlet temperatures, simplicity of the gas turbine cycle, low water requirements, and attractive co-generation characteristics.

Modular HTGR steam cycle plant development

The overall good safety characteristics of all HTGRs are due to: the high heat capacity of the graphite core; the high temperature capability of the core components; the chemical stability and inertness of the fuel, coolant, and moderator; the high retention of fission products by the fuel coatings, the single phase characteristics of helium coolant; and the inherent negativetemperature coefficient of reactivity of the core.

The modular HTGR adds the unique characteristic of being able to cool the reactor entirely by passive heat transfer mechanisms following postulated accidents without exceeding the failure temperature of the coated particles.

This characteristic has been achieved by deliberately
decreasing the core power level and configuring the reactor so that natural heat removal
processes can limit fuel temperatures to levels at which the release of fission products from
the reactor system to the environment is insignificant for postulated accidents.

* HTR modul

80 MWe HTR-MODUL concept was the first modular type HTGR concept proposed.
Siemens/Interatom.
Developed in the early 1980s.
(Pebble bed reactor)

* MHTGR

1983
selection of the modular HTGR in 1985
The basic moudle was designed to deliver superheat steam at 17.3 MPa and 538 C.
An initial module power of 250 MWt was selected.
Subsequent safety analyses showed that the power level could be increased to 350 MWt by using an annular core.

The MHTGR forms the basis for the GT-MHR reactor design.

HTTR - High Temperature Engineering Test Reactor (HTTR)

* Modular HTGR gas turbine plant development