* Gas turbine HTGR

In the early 1980s, General Atomics introduced a gas turbine HTGR, the HTGR-GT \cite{brey_development_2001}.
Early assessments determined its development risk to be higher than the steam-cycle HTGR.
However, the potential of the gas turbine HTGR for higher temperatures, improved thermal efficiencies, and low water use requirements, continued to engender interest from utilities.

* Steam cycle modular HTGR

The overall good safety characteristics of all HTGRs are due to: the high heat capacity of the graphite core; the high temperature capability of the core components; the chemical stability and inertness of the fuel, coolant, and moderator; the high retention of fission products by the fuel coatings, the single phase characteristics of helium coolant; and the inherent negative temperature coefficient of reactivity of the core.

The modular HTGR has a small core power density compared to HTGRs.
This characteristic provides the modular HTGR the ability to cool down entirely by passive heat transfer mechanisms following postulated accidents without exceeding the failure temperature of the coated particles.

* MHTGR

Under the sponsorship of the US Department of Energy (DOE), a team consisting of General Atomics, Combustion Engineering, General Electric, Bechtel National, Stone & Webster Engineering, and Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) developed the MHTGR.
They designed the basic module to deliver superheated steam at 17.3 MPa and 538 C.
Based on both economic and technological considerations, the optimal configuration was a 350 MWth modular reactor with an annular core.
The team completed in 1986 the preliminary safety information document for the MHTGR and the
complete draft pre-application in 1989.
The MHTGR formed the basis for the GT-MHR reactor design.

* Gas turbine modular HTGR

Subsequent technological advancements and the addition of an international capability for the fabrication and testing of the reactor components renewed the interest in this HTGR concept.

* GT-MHR (Gas Turbine-Modular Helium Reactor)

Renewed interest in the US resulted in the GT-MHR development program beginning in 1993.
General Atomics (US) and MINATOM (Russia) would cooperate to develop, construct, test, and operate a prototype.
FRAMATOME and Fuji Electric joined the program in 1996 and 1997, respectively.

The final conceptual design was a 600 MWth/293MWe plant.
Its purpose was to burn weapons plutonium, with the long term goal of commercial development.

* HTTR

In 1987, a special committee investigating the HTGR for JAEC developed the High-Temperature engineering Test Reactor (HTTR) \cite{iaea_current_2001}.
They proposed a prismatic block type core structure with a power rating of 30 MWth.

The Japanese government approved proceeding with the HTTR in its 1989 fiscal year and construction began in March 1991.
The reactor reached first criticality in 1998 and reached full power in 2001.
The HTTR has two operational modes, which their outlet coolant temperatures are 850° and 950°C.

The HTTR program evaluated six major categories of the HTGR concept: safety, thermal hydraulics, fuel, high temperature components, core physics and control/instrumentation.
With the HTTR program, JAEA established a database of operation and maintenance experience.
The purpose of this database is to share information and to use the knowledge gained in the operation of future HTGRs \cite{shimizu_operation_2014}.

* Modern concepts

In addition to government-sponsored research, several privately funded gas reactor projects are underway.

StarCore Nuclear \cite{star_core_nuclear_star_2015} (Canada) is developing a 50 MWth HTGR that will produced electricity (20 MWe) and thermal energy (10 MWth) for use in process heat applications.

Ultra Safe Nuclear Corporation (USNC)(US) is developing the Micro Modular Reactor (MMR), a 15 or 30 MWth HTGR.
The MMR Energy System works as standalone power plant or as part of microgrids, or to provide process heat for industrial applications \cite{world_nuclear_news_micro_2020}.

USNC has partnered with Ontario Power Generation, INL, and UIUC.
Through the partnerships, USNC proposes to deploy its MMR at sites in Ontario, Canada, Idaho, US, and Illinois, US.
